you
this factor is a continually discussion
of generative properties models for text
classroom in this bacteria we're going
to continue talking about the text
crafts text classroom particularly the
generating probabilistic models so this
is a slide that you have seen earlier
where we have written down the
likelihood function for a document with
two distributions in a two component
that makes you model for document
clustering now in this Factory we're
going to generalize this to include the
K clusters now if you look at the
formula and think about the question how
to generalize it you will realize that
all we need is to add more terms like
what you have seen here so you can just
add more Thetas and the probabilities of
Thetas and the probabilities of
generating e from those Cedars so this
is precisely what we are going to use
and this is the general presentation of
the mixture model for document
clustering okay so as more cases we
follow these steps and using a
generative model first let's think about
our data alright so in this case our
data is a collection of documents n
documents denoted by DD sub I and then
we talked about the moral thing about
the model in this case we design a
mixture of K unigram damage models it's
a little bit different from the topic
model and but we have similar parameters
we have a set of the eyes to denote the
word distributions corresponding to the
K unigram language models we have P of
each sida I as a probability of
selecting each of the K distribution
regenerator document now note that
although our goal is to find the
clusters and we actually have used a
more general notion of a probability of
each cluster and this as you see later
would allow us to assign a document to
the cluster that has a highest report
unity of being able to generate the
document so as a result we cows will
recover some other interesting
properties as you will see later so the
model basically would make the following
assumption about the generation of a
document we first choose a state I
according to probability of the eye and
then generate all the words in the
document using this distribution note
that it's important that we use this
disability and all the words in the
document this is very different from
topic model so likelihood function would
be like what you are seeing here ok so
the you can take a look at the formula
here we have used different notation
here in the second line of this of this
equation you can see now the rotation
has been Candida to use a unique word in
the vocabulary in the pipe instead of a
particular position in the document so
from X subject to W is a change of
notation and this change allows us to
show the estimation formulas more easily
and you have seen this change also in
the topic model hesitation but it's
basically still just a product of the
communities of all the words right and
so with the library function now we can
talk about how to do parameter
estimation here we can simply use the
maximum likelihood estimator right so
that's just a standard way of doing
things so all should be familiar to you
now it's just a different model so after
we have estimated parameters how can we
then
located clusters to the documents well
let's take a look at the this situation
more closely so we just repeat the
parameters here for this mixture model
now if you think about what we can get
by istomin such a model we can actually
get more information than what we need
for doing clustering right so theta I
for example represents the content of
cross-slide this is actually a byproduct
it helped us summarize what the cluster
is about to look at the top terms in
this cluster or in this water
distribution and they will tell us what
the cluster is about and P of theta I
can be interpreted as indicating the
size of customer because it tells us how
likely a cluster would be used to
generate the document the more likely
the cluster is used to generate the
document we can assume the larger the
cluster size is I note that unlike in
POS a and this probability of theta is
not dependent on d now you may recall
that the topic of choice in each
document that actually depends on D that
means each document can have a
potentially different the choice of
topics but here we have a generic choice
from unity for all the documents but of
course even a particular document that
which they have to infer which topic is
more likely to generate to the document
so in that sense we can still have a
document dependent probability of
clusters so now let's look at the key
problem of assigning documents to
clusters or assigning clusters revoking
it right so that's your computer C sub D
here and this will take 0 or one of the
values in the range of 12 k to indicate
which cluster should be assigned a 2d
now let's first you might think about a
way to use likely hold on me and that is
assigned deed to the cluster
corresponding to the top casita I that
most likely has been used to generate
the deep so that means welcome
choose one of those distributions that
gives me the highest probability in
other words we'll see which distribution
has a content that matches our deep
about intuitively that makes sense
however this approach does not consider
the size of clusters which is also
available to us and so a better way is
to use the likelihood together with a
prior in this case the pride is P of
theta I and together and that is we're
going to use the base formula to compute
the posterior probability of theta given
deep and if we choose seed are based on
this posterior from unity and we would
have the following formula that you see
here on the bottom of this slide and in
this case we're going to choose the
theta that has a large p of the night
that means a large cluster and also a
high probability of generating d so
within the favor a cluster that's large
and also consistent with our with the
document and that immediately makes
sense because the chance of a document
being a large cluster is generally
higher than in a small cluster so this
means once we can estimate the
parameters of the model then we can easy
to solve the problem of document
clustering so next we have to discuss
how to actually compute the estimate of
the model